# Some Tips On Configuring A Newly Install Debian
2017/07/08 12:46:00


## The "New Computer"

I haven't been using Debian Linux for about one year. Last week I downloaded a Debian 9 and installed it on my new computer(It's a second-hand one and I bought it from [taobao](www.taobao.com) with low price). After using Macbook for one year, I feel it's not the machine I need. The screen is beautiful, applications are simple and clean, and the touchpad is cute, but I got bored on those things, and I finally realize that knowing how my machine works is more attractive to me.


## The Way I Use Linux

I don't want a full-function desktop like GNOME, KDE, LXDE or any other things, they just take too many resources and contains too many things I don't need. Usually the frame buffer console will fit my needs. Sometimes I need a full-function browser that support HTML5, so I will install xorg and firefox, too.

During this installing and configuring, I met some problems I didn't know before.


## The Wireless Driver

My network interface chip is RTL8192, and the default debian don't contains driver for this chip. The installation process and system log told me that. But weird enough, the network works! I guess some compatible driver solved the problem to some extent. But the network had go wrong for several times when I use the machine. The compatible driver is not so perfect. So I decide to install the right driver.

I guess the realtek driver is not fully open-source, you have to install it from non-free repository. If your apt configuration don't contains non-free repository, add it first, add something like the following content to you `/etc/apt/sources.list`.
```
deb http://mirrors.163.com/debian stretch non-free
```

The update apt sources and install realtek drivers.

```sh
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install firmware-realtek
```


## The Xorg Permission Problem

Years ago, I can use `xinit` to start the Xorg as non-root user, but it failed this time. I searched the Internet but didn't find the right answer. I tried to add my account to more groups, but the permission problem is still there. Finally I find some workaround that I didn't know before, and it works.

The key point is to specify a VT that belongs to your account, usually it vt1. You have to switch to vt1 with `F1` key, pause the tmux and return to the bare console, then run this:
```sh
xinit -- vt1
```

